README.md, before:

# Navigating Newcastle 

---

## Description

_this is a fictitious website created for my milestone project 3 with the code institute_.

An online website on "Geordie" dialect which is a rather well known accent widely recognised for being very distinct with many jargon/slang terms used instead of "proper" english. This website will allow users to view "Geordie Slang" and also add their own also with definitions of what each term means incase people ever visit Newcastle.

---

## Table of Contents

- [UX](#ux)
  - [Wireframes](#wireframes)
  - [Database](#database)
  - [User Stories](#user-stories)
    - [User](#user)
    - [Owner](#owner)
    - [Project Goals](#Goals-Derived-From-User-Stories)
---

## UX

### Wireframes

The initial wireframes for this project [Wireframes](https://github.com/Birrellc/Navigating-Newcastle/tree/master/static/wireframes)

---

### Database

- Terms Collection

| Key         | Value              | 
| ------------| -------------------|
| _id         | ObjectId           |
| word        | String             |
| definition  | String             |
| example     | String             |
| by          | String             |

- User Collection

| Key         | Value              | 
| ------------| -------------------|
| _id         | ObjectId           |
| name        | string             |
| username    | string             |
| password    | string             |

The database used for this project is MongoDB via atlas cloud

---

### User Stories

#### User:

- As a user i would like to be able to navigate through the website quickly and clearly.
- As a user i would like to be able to see "Geordie Slang" terms & phrases.
- As a user i would like to be able to contact the owner of the website with any issues or suggestions.
- As a user i would like to be able to register and login seemlessly.
- As a user i would like to be able to create, edit/update and delete my own "Geordie Slang" terms and phrases.


#### Owner:

- As the owner of this website i would like to have my website useable on all platforms from mobile phones to desktop.
- As the owner of this website i would like users to be able to navigate through my website easily.
- As the owner of this website i would like to provide users with the ability to sign up and login with little effort.
- As the owner of this website i would like to users to be able to access all pages apart from the profile page without signing up.
- As the owner of this website i would like users to be able to add their own "Geordie Words" to the website and also edit and delete them.
- As the owner of this website i would like it to be made possible for the users to contact me via email.

#### Goals Derived From User Stories:

- The Goal of this website/project is to create a brief resource on the "Geordie Dialect" of Newcastle.
- The website will be aimed at people interested in the history or dialect of Newcastle and also people interested in visiting.
- This website will also provide a community spirit theme by allowing vistors or residents or former residents to add their own "Geordie Words" to the dictionary.

---

### Landing Page

The landing page actually was originally designed to contain a main image as the background with a clip path slicing the page but as i got into the development of the project i felt for this specific website and its functions it would be best kept minimal so that the soul focus of the website could be viewed and reached with ease and no distraction. The landing page consists of a simple navbar(sidenav for mobile) and a card used as a jumbotron which contains the heading an image of newcastle and two buttons allowing the user to sign up or login to the website to access the dictionary. At the bottom of the page will be a footer used to display socials for proofing but also provide a contact email for the users to submit any issues( I originally aimed for a contact page but felt that for this project a simple button displayed on the footer of each page allowing for email would be more suited)

---

### Geordie Dictionary

Inside the main section will be collapsible fields displaying 'Geordie Dialect' words and phrases which can then be opened up when clicked to show definition, an example and who added the word or phrase to the page. Also at the top of the dictionary page is a search bar for the users to search for words specificially incase the list gets too big for users to identify specific works with ease.

---

### Profile

The profile page will consist of a heading that lists the users username at the top and also a button to add their own word to the dictionary, below this will be a dictionary of all the words the user themselves have added to the website which will be accompanied by 2 buttons, 1 for updating words incase of typo's and also a button to delete the word completely from the database/website.

---

### Login/Signup 

The login page & sign up pages are very similar so will be listed as one, these pages consist of forms created with WTforms which allow the users to login or signup to the website on completion of the form

### Strategy Plane

The purpose of the website created is to be a modern focus on the well known 'Geordie Dialect' and also encouraging community by allowing users to submit content to the website.

- Design a simple to use "dictionary" where users can create, read, update and delete words.
- Design an easy to use website focusing on Newcastle and the Geordie Dialect.
- Design mobile responsive website.
- Provide a login system so users can create accounts and share data to the 'Geordie Dictionary'.

---

### Scope

- The website will provide a clean UX / UI for users to use effectively.
- The website will have full login functionality for users to create accounts
- The website will provide users the ability to interect with the Dictionary page and contribute to it when logged into their accounts
- The website will be an easy to use website focused on simplicity rather than more complicated design.
- All forms that require the input of user data must be validated for efficiency and professionalism.
- Allow Admin to Create, Read, Update and Delete user submitted content (CRUD).
- Allow user to Create, Read, Update and Delete their own content (CRUD).

---

### Structure

- The website is designed with ease of navigation in mind for each section allowing quick transition throughout the website and to avoid any distractions from the users originial purpose on the website.
- The website will also share the same design plan across all pages to keep things neat and easy for the user to use.
- Users without accounts or not logged in will only be able to see home, login and signup pages
- Users that are logged in will also 

---

### Skeleton

- Minimal Theme Navigation.  
- Pages - There will be a Home, Geordie Dictionary page, Login/Signup page and a Profile page and all pages will follow the same principles of design.
- Users - Users will have access to their own profile pages also.

---

### Surface

#### Color Scheme

- My color scheme came from the random color pannels generator on [coolors](https://coolors.co/)

![picture](static/images/nn-colours.png.png)

#### Font

- The font used for this project is "[Comic Neue](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Comic+Neue?preview.text_type=custom)" which i chose as i wanted a more casual font for this project instead of professional.

#### Images

- I chose only to use one image "[This image](https://github.com/Birrellc/Navigating-Newcastle/tree/master/static/images/nn-home.jpg)" for this project as it was based on a city so i felt i need to represent that city with atleast one image but i did not want to go overboard and distract from the main focus of the website which is the "Dictionary"

---

## Features

### Website Features

- 7 page website overall with add_word, update_word included
- 3 User Interactive Forms With Validation
- Account Registration & Login Features
- CRUD options to create, read, update and delete words for all registered users.
- Search engine to allow users to search for specific words
- Social Media - Social media icons will be present on all pages.


### Features to be Implemented in the Future

- Google reCAPTCHA.
- Fully functioning checkout system to add to the shopping cart for successful online orders.
- Upvote system for popular words.
- a-z search order
- Newsletter system with to send users which words have been added that month.
- Password reset emails

---

## Technologies

### Languages

- [HTML5](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML5)
- [CSS3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CSS)
- [Javascript](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JavaScript)
- [Python](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Python_(programming_language))


### Libraries Frameworks & Plugins

- [Materialize](https://materializecss.com/)
- [jQuery](https://jquery.com/)


### Workspace

- [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
- [Gitpod](https://www.gitpod.io/)
- [Git](https://git-scm.com/)
- [GitHub](https://github.com/)

### External Resources

- [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/) - Used to import fonts for the website.
- [W3C HTML Validator](https://validator.w3.org/) - Used to test/validate HTML code on the website.
- [W3C CSS Validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/) - Used to test/validate the CSS code on the website.
- [Pexels](https://https://www.pexels.com/) - Stock image resource.
- [Tinypng](http://https://tinypng.com/) - Website used to compress my images to allow for faster loading times.
- [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/) - Used to provide small icons for the website. eg. Testimonial quotes section.
- [Stack Overflow](https://fonts.google.com/) - Resource which provided the 3 fonts: Anton, Arvo & Montserrat for the website.
- [Google PageSpeed Insights](https://developers.google.com/speed/pagespeed/insights/) - Used to test the loading speed of the website.
- [Responsivley App](https://responsively.app/) - Used to test responsive web apps.
- [Real Favicon Generator](https://realfavicongenerator.net/) - Used to create my favicon image and also test to see if it was working.
- [Spell Checker for Chrome](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/spell-checker-for-chrome/jfpdnkkdgghlpdgldicfgnnnkhdfhocg?hl=en) - Used to spell check my **README.md** & **testing.md**.
- [W3 Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/) - Used as a general resource to help with coding.
- [Am I Responsive](http://ami.responsivedesign.is/) - Used to create mockup of responsive website for **README.md**.
- [Youtube](https://www.w3schools.com/) - Used as a general resource for help with code.
- [Balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/wireframes/) - Used to create wireframes.
- [Markdown Cheat Sheet](https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet) - Used to create my **README.md** & **Testing.md** files.
- [Grammarly(unofficial)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=znck.grammarly) - A plugin for VSCode which I used to check the grammar and spelling for my README.md & testing.md docs.
- [BrowserStack](https://www.browserstack.com) - Used to test my website with the Safari browser.
- [Lighthouse](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/lighthouse) - Used to check accessabilty and SEO scores for the website.
- [Code Institute](https://codeinstitute.net/) - Main source of coding knowledge and project was heavily based of their course material.
- Code institute Slack Community - Used for inspiration for my website.

Commit message:

Docs: updated technologies used section of readme

README.md, after:

# Navigating Newcastle 

---

## Description

_this is a fictitious website created for my milestone project 3 with the code institute_.

An online website on "Geordie" dialect which is a rather well known accent widely recognised for being very distinct with many jargon/slang terms used instead of "proper" english. This website will allow users to view "Geordie Slang" and also add their own also with definitions of what each term means incase people ever visit Newcastle.

---

## Table of Contents

- [UX](#ux)
  - [Wireframes](#wireframes)
  - [Database](#database)
  - [User Stories](#user-stories)
    - [User](#user)
    - [Owner](#owner)
    - [Project Goals](#Goals-Derived-From-User-Stories)
---

## UX

### Wireframes

The initial wireframes for this project [Wireframes](https://github.com/Birrellc/Navigating-Newcastle/tree/master/static/wireframes)

---

### Database

- Terms Collection

| Key         | Value              | 
| ------------| -------------------|
| _id         | ObjectId           |
| word        | String             |
| definition  | String             |
| example     | String             |
| by          | String             |

- User Collection

| Key         | Value              | 
| ------------| -------------------|
| _id         | ObjectId           |
| name        | string             |
| username    | string             |
| password    | string             |

The database used for this project is MongoDB via atlas cloud

---

### User Stories

#### User:

- As a user i would like to be able to navigate through the website quickly and clearly.
- As a user i would like to be able to see "Geordie Slang" terms & phrases.
- As a user i would like to be able to contact the owner of the website with any issues or suggestions.
- As a user i would like to be able to register and login seemlessly.
- As a user i would like to be able to create, edit/update and delete my own "Geordie Slang" terms and phrases.


#### Owner:

- As the owner of this website i would like to have my website useable on all platforms from mobile phones to desktop.
- As the owner of this website i would like users to be able to navigate through my website easily.
- As the owner of this website i would like to provide users with the ability to sign up and login with little effort.
- As the owner of this website i would like to users to be able to access all pages apart from the profile page without signing up.
- As the owner of this website i would like users to be able to add their own "Geordie Words" to the website and also edit and delete them.
- As the owner of this website i would like it to be made possible for the users to contact me via email.

#### Goals Derived From User Stories:

- The Goal of this website/project is to create a brief resource on the "Geordie Dialect" of Newcastle.
- The website will be aimed at people interested in the history or dialect of Newcastle and also people interested in visiting.
- This website will also provide a community spirit theme by allowing vistors or residents or former residents to add their own "Geordie Words" to the dictionary.

---

### Landing Page

The landing page actually was originally designed to contain a main image as the background with a clip path slicing the page but as i got into the development of the project i felt for this specific website and its functions it would be best kept minimal so that the soul focus of the website could be viewed and reached with ease and no distraction. The landing page consists of a simple navbar(sidenav for mobile) and a card used as a jumbotron which contains the heading an image of newcastle and two buttons allowing the user to sign up or login to the website to access the dictionary. At the bottom of the page will be a footer used to display socials for proofing but also provide a contact email for the users to submit any issues( I originally aimed for a contact page but felt that for this project a simple button displayed on the footer of each page allowing for email would be more suited)

---

### Geordie Dictionary

Inside the main section will be collapsible fields displaying 'Geordie Dialect' words and phrases which can then be opened up when clicked to show definition, an example and who added the word or phrase to the page. Also at the top of the dictionary page is a search bar for the users to search for words specificially incase the list gets too big for users to identify specific works with ease.

---

### Profile

The profile page will consist of a heading that lists the users username at the top and also a button to add their own word to the dictionary, below this will be a dictionary of all the words the user themselves have added to the website which will be accompanied by 2 buttons, 1 for updating words incase of typo's and also a button to delete the word completely from the database/website.

---

### Login/Signup 

The login page & sign up pages are very similar so will be listed as one, these pages consist of forms created with WTforms which allow the users to login or signup to the website on completion of the form

### Strategy Plane

The purpose of the website created is to be a modern focus on the well known 'Geordie Dialect' and also encouraging community by allowing users to submit content to the website.

- Design a simple to use "dictionary" where users can create, read, update and delete words.
- Design an easy to use website focusing on Newcastle and the Geordie Dialect.
- Design mobile responsive website.
- Provide a login system so users can create accounts and share data to the 'Geordie Dictionary'.

---

### Scope

- The website will provide a clean UX / UI for users to use effectively.
- The website will have full login functionality for users to create accounts
- The website will provide users the ability to interect with the Dictionary page and contribute to it when logged into their accounts
- The website will be an easy to use website focused on simplicity rather than more complicated design.
- All forms that require the input of user data must be validated for efficiency and professionalism.
- Allow Admin to Create, Read, Update and Delete user submitted content (CRUD).
- Allow user to Create, Read, Update and Delete their own content (CRUD).

---

### Structure

- The website is designed with ease of navigation in mind for each section allowing quick transition throughout the website and to avoid any distractions from the users originial purpose on the website.
- The website will also share the same design plan across all pages to keep things neat and easy for the user to use.
- Users without accounts or not logged in will only be able to see home, login and signup pages
- Users that are logged in will also 

---

### Skeleton

- Minimal Theme Navigation.  
- Pages - There will be a Home, Geordie Dictionary page, Login/Signup page and a Profile page and all pages will follow the same principles of design.
- Users - Users will have access to their own profile pages also.

---

### Surface

#### Color Scheme

- My color scheme came from the random color pannels generator on [coolors](https://coolors.co/)

![picture](static/images/nn-colours.png.png)

#### Font

- The font used for this project is "[Comic Neue](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Comic+Neue?preview.text_type=custom)" which i chose as i wanted a more casual font for this project instead of professional.

#### Images

- I chose only to use one image "[This image](https://github.com/Birrellc/Navigating-Newcastle/tree/master/static/images/nn-home.jpg)" for this project as it was based on a city so i felt i need to represent that city with atleast one image but i did not want to go overboard and distract from the main focus of the website which is the "Dictionary"

---

## Features

### Website Features

- 7 page website overall with add_word, update_word included
- 3 User Interactive Forms With Validation
- Account Registration & Login Features
- CRUD options to create, read, update and delete words for all registered users.
- Search engine to allow users to search for specific words
- Social Media - Social media icons will be present on all pages.


### Features to be Implemented in the Future

- Google reCAPTCHA.
- Fully functioning checkout system to add to the shopping cart for successful online orders.
- Upvote system for popular words.
- a-z search order
- Newsletter system with to send users which words have been added that month.
- Password reset emails

---

## Technologies

### Languages

- [HTML5](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML5)
- [CSS3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CSS)
- [Javascript](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JavaScript)
- [Python](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Python_(programming_language))


### Frameworks

- [Materialize](https://materializecss.com/)
- [jQuery](https://jquery.com/)
- [Flask](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/1.1.x/)


### Workspace

- [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
- [Gitpod](https://www.gitpod.io/)
- [Git](https://git-scm.com/)
- [GitHub](https://github.com/)

### External Resources

- [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/) - Used to import fonts for the website.
- [W3C HTML Validator](https://validator.w3.org/) - Used to test/validate HTML code on the website.
- [W3C CSS Validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/) - Used to test/validate the CSS code on the website.
- [Pexels](https://https://www.pexels.com/) - Stock image resource.
- [Tinypng](http://https://tinypng.com/) - Website used to compress my images to allow for faster loading times.
- [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/) - Used to provide small icons for the website. eg. Testimonial quotes section.
- [Stack Overflow](https://fonts.google.com/) - Resource which provided the 3 fonts: Anton, Arvo & Montserrat for the website.
- [Google PageSpeed Insights](https://developers.google.com/speed/pagespeed/insights/) - Used to test the loading speed of the website.
- [Responsivley App](https://responsively.app/) - Used to test responsive web apps.
- [Real Favicon Generator](https://realfavicongenerator.net/) - Used to create my favicon image and also test to see if it was working.
- [Spell Checker for Chrome](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/spell-checker-for-chrome/jfpdnkkdgghlpdgldicfgnnnkhdfhocg?hl=en) - Used to spell check my **README.md** & **testing.md**.
- [W3 Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/) - Used as a general resource to help with coding.
- [Am I Responsive](http://ami.responsivedesign.is/) - Used to create mockup of responsive website for **README.md**.
- [Youtube](https://www.w3schools.com/) - Used as a general resource for help with code.
- [Balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/wireframes/) - Used to create wireframes.
- [Markdown Cheat Sheet](https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet) - Used to create my **README.md** & **Testing.md** files.
- [Grammarly(unofficial)](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=znck.grammarly) - A plugin for VSCode which I used to check the grammar and spelling for my README.md & testing.md docs.
- [BrowserStack](https://www.browserstack.com) - Used to test my website with the Safari browser.
- [Lighthouse](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/lighthouse) - Used to check accessabilty and SEO scores for the website.
- [Code Institute](https://codeinstitute.net/) - Main source of coding knowledge and project was heavily based of their course material.
- Code institute Slack Community - Used for inspiration for my website.

### Dependencies

- Pymongo and Flask-PyMongo which i used to connect my project to my MongoDB database.
- Click which is a command line interface toolkit.
- dnspython which is a dns toolkit for Python.
- itsdangerous which provides various helpers to pass data to untrusted environments and return it safely.
- Jinja2 which is a templating language for Python
- WTforms which is a flexible forms validation and rendering library for Python
- werkzueg which is used in this project to provide security by hashing user passwords
